Prevent automatic ES service software upgrades (#3959) (#3976)
DataBiosphere/azul: OPERATOR.rst

Operator jobs
-------------

Check daily for OpenSearch Service Software Updates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Amazon OpenSearch Service releases service software updates periodically, which
are automatically applied after two weeks from the time a notification about the
upgrade is received. The operator must prevent this upgrade from happening
automatically and instead manually apply it through the AWS OpenSearch Service
console when prod is idle.

To check for upgrades:

> #. Go to https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/esv3/home?region=us-east-1#opensearch/notifications

Reviewer: This is not how links are formatted in rst.

Anyways: don't paste deep links to the AWS console. They break in no time. Use English to describe where to go.

#. If notifications with subject `Service Software Update` are present, open a

>    new issue in https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/issues/new/choose and

Reviewer: same here re link but everyone knows how to open an issue

Operator jobs
-------------

Check weekly for Amazon OSS (ES) Updates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Check weekly for notifications about Amazon OpenSearch Service (OSS) software
updates. Notifications with `High` severity will apply the update automatically
after two weeks from the date the notification was received, read
`Amazon notification severities`_ for more info. The operator should

> make the update manually as part of a task of an Azul issue.

Author: ```suggestion
make the update manually as part of an operator task.
```

Check for Amazon OSS software updates:

#. In ``Amazon OpenSearch Service Console`` select the ``Notifications`` pane
   and identify notifications with subject ``'Service Software Update'``.

> #. Record the severity e.g. ``"Informational" time utc e.g
>    ``"3/22/2022, 11:06:14 PM"`` and domain name e.g. ``"azul-index-sandbox"`` of
>    these notifications. Collect this information for both ``prod`` and ``dev``
>    AWS accounts.

Author: ```suggestion
#. Record the severity e.g. ``"Informational", time utc e.g
   ``"3/22/2022, 11:06:14 PM"``, and domain name e.g. ``"azul-index-sandbox"`` of
   these notifications. Collect this information for both ``prod`` and ``dev``
   AWS accounts.
```

> #. Open a new issue in Azul and title it ``Service Software Update {date}``.

Author: ```suggestion
#. Open a new issue in Azul and title it ``Apply OpenSearch (ES) Service Software Update before {date}``.
```

`Amazon notification severities`_ for more info. The operator should avoid the
instance be updated automatically and instead make the update manually as part
of an operator ticket.

Check for Amazon OSS software updates:

#. In ``Amazon OpenSearch Service Console`` select the ``Notifications`` pane
   and identify notifications with subject ``'Service Software Update'``.

#. Record the severity e.g. ``"Informational", time utc e.g
   ``"3/22/2022, 11:06:14 PM"``, and domain name e.g. ``"azul-index-sandbox"`` of
   these notifications. Collect this information for both ``prod`` and ``dev``
   AWS accounts.

#. Open a new issue in Azul and title it
   ``Apply Amazon OSS (ES) Software Update (before {date})``.
   Title should include ``before {date}`` only if any recorded notification is
   of ``High`` severity. {date} should be two weeks from the date for time utc.
   e.g. ``Apply Amazon OSS (ES) Software Update before 4/05/2022``.

#. Pin ticket with `High Priority` in ZenHub only if title contains a date,
   i.e., a notification of ``High`` severity was recorded.

#. The description of the newly created issue should include a checklist item

>    for each domain name recorded in step 2. Be considered of disruptions to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for each domain name recorded in step 2. Be considerate of disruptions to
```

But discuss in PL.

   others workflow and incompatible upgrades when producing the checklist. The

>    checklist should reflect a sensible order for performing the upgrades. Always

Reviewer: It's not clear to the reader what this means. Discuss in PL

   confirm with lead about adding unaccounted domain names to the checklist.
   Checklist::

    - [ ] Update `azul-index-dev`
    - [ ] Confirm with Azul devs that their personal deployments are inactive
    - [ ] Update `azul-index-sandbox`
    - [ ] Update `azul-index-prod`

#. To update the domain, click the desired domain in the OSS console. Under

>    ``General information`` the ``Service software version`` should have a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``General information``, the ``Service software version`` should have a
```

   ``Update available`` hyper link, click on it and complete the prompted
   instructions.

> #. Once the upgrade process is completed, do a smoke test in the Data Browser to

Reviewer: For `dev` and `prod`. Can't be done for `sandbox`

Operator jobs
-------------

Check weekly for Amazon OpenSearch Service updates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Check weekly for notifications about Amazon OpenSearch Service (ElasticSearch
> [ES]) software updates. Notifications with `High` severity will be subject to an

Author: ```suggestion
Check weekly for notifications about Amazon OpenSearch Service
software updates. Notifications with `High` severity will be subject to an
```

automatic update by AWS after two weeks from the date received. Read

> `Amazon notification severities`_ for more info. The operator should avoid any

Author: ```suggestion
`Amazon notification severities`_ for more info. The operator should prevent any
```

automatic installation of updates. It would be disastrous if an update were to
be applied in the middle of a reindex. Instead, the operator must apply the
update manually as part of an operator ticket, as soon as possible, and well
before any updates would be applied automatically.

Check for Amazon OpenSearch software updates:

#. In *Amazon OpenSearch Service Console* select the *Notifications* pane

>    and identify notifications with subject ``'Service Software Update'``.

Author: ```suggestion
   and identify notifications with subject ``Service Software Update``.
```
here and elsewhere.

#. Record the severity e.g. ``"Informational"``, time utc e.g
   ``"3/22/2022, 11:06:14 PM"``, and domain name e.g. ``"azul-index-sandbox"`` of
   these notifications. Collect this information for both ``prod`` and ``dev``

>    AWS accounts.

Author: Remove examples.

#. Open a new issue in Azul and title it
   ``Apply Amazon OpenSearch (ES) Software Update (before {date})``.
   Title should include ``(before {date})`` only if any recorded notification is
   of ``High`` severity. {date} should be two weeks from the date that the
   notification with high severity was received. e.g. ``Apply Amazon OpenSearch
   (ES) Software Update before 4/05/2022``.

> #. Pin ticket with *High Priority* in ZenHub only if title contains a date,
>    i.e., a notification of ``High`` severity was recorded.

Author: ```suggestion
#. Pin ticket with *High Priority* in ZenHub only if title contains a date.
```

#. The description of the newly created issue should include a checklist item
   for each domain name recorded in step 2. The checklist should reflect items

>    for notifying developers of the incoming disruptions to the shared domains.

Author: ```suggestion
   for notifying developers of any disruptions to their deployments.
```

   Checklist::

    - [ ] Update `azul-index-dev`

>     - [ ] Confirm with Azul devs that their personal deployments are inactive

Author: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Confirm with Azul devs that their personal deployments are idle
```
